four Israelis rescued 270 Palestinians
killed and no ceasefire deal yet the
headlines may be bad but this is playing
out pretty much exactly as Benjamin
Netanyahu wants it to in Jordan you're
on Dangerous Ground if you accuse the
state of complicity with Israel and
Georgia Malone's domination over Italy's
public broadcaster Ry is leaving very
little room for critical journalism
through the more than 8 months of the
war in Gaza one issue above all else has
Obsessed much of Israeli Society it's
the hostages on news bulletins in polls
in the National Consciousness the fate
of the Israelis held as prisoners of war
in Gaza is a big story around 120 out of
the approximately 240 abducted by Hamas
fighters on October 7th remain in
captivity the dramatic extraction of
four of them in an Israeli Army
operation has made some things starkly
evident first a ceasefire is the most
effective process to rescue hostages a
deal in November freed 105 Israelis
second Palestinian lives will be
sacrificed in any rescue more than 270
were massacred in the recent assault and
third politically the most vital point
in Israel right now is that for prime
minister Netanyahu the hostage matter is
something he pays lip service to but
it's a headache it gets in the way of of
what seems to be netanyahu's effort to
prolong this war in order to prolong his
own political
career it was a day of high emotion in
Israel after being held for nearly 250
days in captivity in Gaza four Israeli
hostages had been extracted by the army
operation seeds of Summer the code name
initially given to the hostage rescue
campaign was celebrated across
Israel the Jubilation was not just about
the return of captives kidnapped by
Hamas Fighters during the October 7th
attack it was about the reassertion of
Israel's military might
the operation was hailed as proof that
despite its catastrophic failure to
protect the nation 8 months ago the Army
was back in control I think it's
important to to hearken back to Israel's
mythology of its own uh strength I mean
since the beginning of uh Israel's
Inception Israel has built itself
through its military Hammer as the new
Jewish state is born Arabs called points
are taken after being blasted to Rubble
this line of Israeli operations that are
daring creative Sublime has been a
fundamental and important element in the
production of Israeli identity itself so
this operation had these elements but at
the same time we should remember that it
accompanied whes scale Massacre of 270
Palestinians another 600 injured but of
course in Israeli own narrative it only
includes
the rescue operation without any
significant mention of the massacres
that the Israeli Army inflicted on the
Palestinian civilians in the camp the
military correspondents gave greatly
detailed accounts recounting the drama
of the
rescue the IDF released some quite
dramatic body camera footage but it does
seem like a oneoff I think even to
people who are excited about it there's
a recognition that this sort of thing is
not
replicable already the hostage situation
has dragged on much longer than Israelis
have wanted there are 120 captives still
remaining in Gaza at least a third of
them have reportedly been killed in
Israeli air strikes
the families of the hostages have come
together to become one of the most
persistent pressure groups on the
Israeli
government at every stage of this war
the hostage families have criticized
lamented and berated what they call a
self-serving leadership and across
Israel the cause of the hostages has
popular sympathy and support every
single interaction you have in Israel
has something to do with the hostages
when I tried on a blouse in a boutique
there was a poster in the changing cabin
that said bring them home now every
single shop window has the stencil #
bring them home now bring them home now
was the Wi-Fi password at a cafe I work
at in Tel Aviv there are pictures of the
hostages taped to park benches um
plastered on walls um they everyone
knows all their names the hostage issue
is very emotive for for Israelis as it
would be for any people in the world if
their people are taking hostage they
would want them back the problem for
Netanyahu is that the war effort to free
the hostages is not succeeding they had
just freed four the other day with this
very vicious raid but the only ones that
were released were released when there
was a
ceasefire I don't think it's
controversial to say that returning the
hostages has not been a priority for the
netan government when netan announced
the ultimate aims of this war which were
returning the hostages and then total
Victory as he claimed it over Hamas it's
been pretty clear that his
administration has pursued the ladder
the hostage families have been
protesting almost every week they don't
seem to have made very much of an impact
on netan or for that matter the minister
is in his government for instance benil
who is the national security minister
was caught on a on
camera there's an animosity actually to
some of the hostage families it's been
quite shocking in the long months that
Israel's Relentless assault on Gaza has
dragged on the families of the hostages
have taken it upon themselves to keep
the cause of their loved ones in the
public eye
since the rescue mission Israeli news
outlets have gone wall to- wall day
after day with news of the evacuees a
lot has been made of the fact in Israeli
media that these hostages appear to have
been held in civilian homes and of
course that bolsters the common Israeli
narrative that there's no uninvolved
people in Gaza which is to say that all
gazans are participants in what Hamas is
doing at the same time a lot of hostages
have openly said that they certainly
feared for their lives from their
captives but what they also feared was
that they might be killed uh in Israeli
air strikes that they could hear the
bombs falling they could feel the ground
shake right now in Israel there's a lot
of management on what Israelis actually
hear about the experience of people held
in captivity in the Gaza Strip but what
little comes out shows that there is at
least some sort of Humane treatment of
these uh Israelis and I think that
that's important to also uh register
because it contrasts uh with the current
Paradigm that Israel has used in its
prisons using isolation the deprivation
of food lack of sleep stress positions
prisoners are coming out having lost uh
tens of kilograms and the picture that
we're getting is largely from
Palestinian prisoners coming from the
West Bank and and not from Gaza because
prisoners of Gaza are suffering even
more uh brutality they're made to bark
they're always Shackled almost 36
Palestinian prisoners
from Gaza have been killed under these
severe
conditions under Benjamin Netanyahu
Israel has intensified its occupation
and apartheid and since October last
year it has been carrying out what has
been deemed a plausible genocide of
Palestinians Netanyahu and his political
greed have been Central to all this in
his nearly two decades at the heart of
government he has manipulated and
massaged the system to keep himself in
power allying with ever more extreme
political actors and dominating the
narrative in a way that means no dirt
ever really sticks be it corruption
moral depravity or a narcissistic agenda
that is to the detriment of the nation
even now with so many in Israel blaming
him for the disastrous War and the
untenable hostage situation Netanyahu
has made the Rescue all about
himself har published an editorial
cartoon by the inimitable uh Amos bman
that shows a military helicopter with a
pilot and next to the pilot in the
passenger seat is no aamon who's one of
the most well-known hostages taken on
October 7th and Netanyahu is waving and
the caption is I'm responsible meaning I
take credit the fact is that the
majority of Israelis support netanyahu's
policies they may not like him they may
not like his personal conduct but the
context which Netanyahu exploits very
well is to constantly tell his
people and to do this we have to U teach
the Palestinians a lesson in Gaza that
they'll never forget and carry out this
genocide and the majority of Israelis
say yes go ahead we're with you I think
it would be fair to say that the
continuation of the current Netanyahu
government threatens Israel's survival
much more than any military force that
exists uh right now the greatest threat
to Israel survival is the ongoing
occupation the forces that Netanyahu is
aligned with are the forces that want to
see not just the occupation perpetuated
but it basically made permanent they
want to see the annexation of the West
Bank in Gaza and the expulsion of the
pal Ians there if they get their way
that will be the end of Israel and and
whether they get their way depends a lot
on whether netan stays in
[Music]
power in Israel's neighboring state
Jordan unrest has been brewing for
months against the backdrop of the
assault on Gaza there have been Mass
protests and political posturing from
the ruling family and now we're seeing
journalists being singled out Ryan
Kohl's has more
after her arrest last month Jordanian
journalist Hiba abut Taha was sentenced
this week by a court in Iman to a year
in prison becoming the first
high-profile Target of a controversial
new cyber crime law authorities weren't
forthcoming on how exactly Abu Taha
broke the law but the arrest came days
after she published an article in a
Lebanese online outlet titled the role
of the Jordanian state in protecting the
enemy occupier in it she tore into
Jordan's authorities for allowing the
passage of fuel shipments to Israel and
for the military's role in intercepting
Iranian drones and missiles aimed at Tel
Aviv Abu Taha like millions of
jordanians is of Palestinian descent she
has been arrested twice before for her
work but this time it's clear given the
Hefty prison sentence she's hit in a
specially sore spot for the
government since October 7th King
Abdullah has been busy engaging in
dramatic photo ops and Military
exercises including airdropping aid over
the Gaza Strip all to emphasize that
Jordan is an opponent of Israel an ally
to the Palestinian cause meanwhile the
anger on the streets of Aman has been
palpable Millions protested against the
War and what widely perceived as the
complicity of the Jordanian State
authorities responded with arrests of
not only protesters but academics
activists and journalists discussing the
protests online all thanks to that cyber
crime law which conveniently for the
Jordanian government was passed weeks
before October 7th and it's come in
handy for them ever since thanks Ryan
since its Inception in the 1950s Italy's
National broadcaster Ry has grappled
with a conundrum the network is owned in
large part by the state it is funded in
large part by the public through attacks
and that's where the tension has been
should Ry serve as political Masters in
government or the people of Italy and
the public interest successive leaders
have promised to break the network free
of this tangle but have never delivered
for the nearly 2 years that Georgia
Malone's right-wing government has been
in power there's been a squeeze on the
media in general and Ry in particular
from the cancelling of critical voices
to a slew of resignations the censoring
of stories and the placement of prover
people in key positions insiders say the
situation has never been this Bleak
those who spoke with us for this report
did so on the condition we hide their
identity the listening posts Tark NAFA
now from Rome on the faltering
independence of Italy's National
broadcaster and the broader implications
for Democratic discourse and media
freedom in
Italy in Italy a debate is Raging about
the prime minister's domination over
public broadcaster Ry which her critics
have dubbed T
Maloney so in late May Georgia Maloney
took to social media to confront her
opponents by trolling them
[Music]
by teasing her critics the prime
minister is twisting the narrative in
her favor unfortunately T Mone is real
in Ren where I work our director is a
renowned Melone supporter recently we've
seen Melone speeches transmitted live in
full in one particular outrageous case
for 46 minutes straight without any kind
of journalistic examination
whatsoever Italy's Prime Minister says
it openly she thinks it's time for Ry to
change previous governments locked
Malone's party Fratelli Italia out of
the governance of the public broadcaster
and now the far right ruling Coalition
wants to address what they see as
historic left-wing bias
journalists we've spoken to at Ry insist
what is happening goes far beyond
balance they say Maloney and her allies
are out to seize control of the network
bend it to their will and Purge or
sideline anyone who gets in the way
which is why all the journalists we've
spoken to have asked to remain either
Anonymous or off the Record among
ourselves we journ say that this
government is taking no
prisoners which is to say that they are
placing people loyal to them in all key
roles in a methodical manner you can see
it in our news rooms in our programs and
news bulletins it lives less and less
space for voices tied to the
opposition people talk about this as
though political interference in Ry has
only just begun but it's always been
there what I'm seeing today is the same
I've seen in previous years there's a
lot of politics a lot of opportunism
perhaps those who've only just realized
right is under government control were
asleep years ago or maybe they're just
filing their complaints 8 years too
late the editorial makeup of R has
always been political because of what is
called L the divvying up of the
Network's most important jobs among
different political parties broadly
speaking Runo has tended to be prover Ru
center right and rre Center left
in 2015 center-left prime minister Mato
renzi introduced a new position at the
top a CEO with broad decision-making
powers that was meant to end the
Domination by politicians but seemingly
only made things worse less than a year
after Maloney came to power then CEO
Carlo fores said he was forced to resign
under pressure from her government he
was replaced with Roberto Sergio whose
political stance Italian media have
reported changes with the wind Ry also
got a new director General John Paulo
Rossi who is staunchly proone and has a
history of racist and pro-fascist
Views has always been used by political
parties but at least before we had a
fair play of sorts between the
Parliamentary majority and the
opposition this for play agreement is
gone this is outright appropriation it's
a very different situation what we have
is a single party that manages three
separate
channels there are a lot of stories we
weren't allowed to report on there are
certain stories we won't even pitch
anymore because we know they'll get
rejected by an editor obviously it isn't
the Prime Minister herself intervening
in Rise editorial choices but clearly a
whole system of supervision has been set
up by Rise governance which serves as a
control filter even satire satire was
often at the heart of many R programs
success it's gone because it's no longer
permitted to harshly criticize those who
are in power if you look at our coverage
of Gaza for example because the
government is supporting Israel so
unequivocally
there is a lot of pressure from editors
and various Executives to tone down
certain
terms when discussing the ongoing
massacres in Gaza journalists are asked
not to use certain words to soften the
language I have never seen this level of
censorship and manipulation as with this
story if you speak out against it the
only result is that the system expels
and marginalizes you
at every level of Rise management there
are changes happening that suit the
government's narrative in May the
broadcaster's union of journalists usig
Ry organized a strike to protest
stifling control by Malone's government
they said was turning Ry into a
mouthpiece one of the reasons R was able
to stay on the air during the walkout is
because of a new counter Union set up
last year unai whose members kept
working they describe themselves as an
alternative pluralist Union and it just
so happens that all the senior managers
who were recently promoted are members
of this Union unai basically carries out
a lobbying function rather than
safeguarding workers rights it is
lobbying to advance a particular
narrative and to advance the careers of
a specific group of people
Franchesco p is the secretary of the new
Union
unai we have given birth to this new
Trade union in order to represent all of
Rise journalists all too often rise
historic Trade union has been the
mouthpiece of a single line of thought
to these Anonymous colleagues who call
us scabs and to those who see us as a
trade Union that's controlled by the
board that is a very serious accusation
if they have evidence of this let the
them report us otherwise this is nothing
more than defamation
def there are also journalists who don't
strike because they're afraid these are
the people who want be interviewed not
even anonymously it's just like Italy
under fascism it's not that all Italians
were fascists but many went along with
it out of
fear Ry is just one front in prime
minister Malone's battle to remake Italy
she says she wants to liberate Italian
culture from the hegemony of a left-wing
Elite part of that effort involves
rewriting Italian History ministers in
mone's government have celebrated the
achievements of fascism while
whitewashing violent episodes from
Italy's past like its colonial rule in
Africa
Italy has never truly confronted its
history of fascism you still see
monuments to the fascist era all over
Rome prime minister Maloney has at times
try to excuse the fascist Crimes of the
past she wants Italians to be at ease
with their history because it helps
justify the vision she has for Italy
today the objective here is not just
about taking politics toward the right
it's also about a change in the culture
by rewriting history we have to face up
to it there's always been
censorship Italian History is not
especially marked by liberalism we have
to admit
that a country without freedom of the
press is a country that cannot be
Democratic R has been hijacked by a
single point of view one that promotes
traditional Family Values Catholic
values patriotism and makes a great show
of anything that is linked to the
institutions to the Army how can anyone
understand what's really going on in the
country when the accepted Narrative of
events is so singular so
unquestionable when there is no
criticism no right to
criticize and finally for students of
critical theory and those of us who
interrogate the media are the Silence of
a particular voice on the big events
taking place globally right now will not
have gone unnoticed n Chomsky the
American linguist anti-war activist and
importantly the co-author of the book
manufacturing consent has always been
outspoken on power oppression and when
the media failed to fulfill their duty
this past week chomsky's family said his
silence has been because he is deeply
unwell and in hospital Chomsky is 95 he
hasn't always got it right but his
influence on generations of people
around the world holding power to
account has been phenomenal the hope is
he recovers his health until then this
moment is as good a time as any to
either introduce yourself to
manufacturing consent or reread it it
remains as relevant as ever we'll see
you next time here at the listening post